Q: vgmc lore?

A: filipo, shota nakama, akash nakar, sean sincalir, qien hao all were there!

Q: berklee experience?

A: before berklee didn't have the language to communicate;
   hyper-competitive atmosphere among performers, pivoted to EPD

Q: talk about fez music; what makes chiptune feel chiptune?

A: unfiltered waveforms, recontextualized those sounds to be more cinematic

Q: hyper light drifter; what inspired you to make it the way it is?

A: use piano to create a dichotomy. end of something is a great place to break rules

Q: anything else about synths that draws you to them?

A: expression; control over timbre is fun and highly expressive
   played with nord modular synth software

Q: january; speak

A: game jam at MIT media lab, felt inspired to make something of his own
   used flixl -- gradually built, getting more and more technical
   if this note --> list of notes that work; highly probabilistic

Q: helped with working on mini metro?

A: went back to january, cleaned it up; people played it
   mini metro devs wanted a procedural score!

Q: how has your process evolved, particularly with paradise marsh?

A: inspired by botw; phrase-based open world music
   3 elements: pad bass keys; manipulate phrases in generative way
   play with timing offset; transposition; reversal; FX

Q: rhythm game time; different process?

A: wife texted him, responded immediately
   anyways, dont need to worry about motifs, have fun!
   no strong external goal
   worked on everhood: eternity edition

R: past the ambition stage, maximizing time
   solar ash was a grind

Q: solar ash?

A: worked more on audio systems -- learning unreal engine technical sound design

Q: movies time; different process for movies?

A: process is as different as you want it to be
   "what do you think the game needs?"
   dont be overly ambitious -- interactive music is hard to do well
   write something BEFORE prototyping generative part
   film is painting by numbers -- fill in music more statically
   film is more freeing because you do more music writing than coding

Q: how did you get here?

A: say yes to EVERYTHING
   make mistakes to understand what you like and dislike
   try as many things as you can
   pick your battles

Q: writing standalone music; comparable to rhythm games?

A: yes, learned that he worked better with a concept
   writing music for yourself is not necessarily like that, blank page is too freeing
   latch onto a given concept

Q: genres, artists, other inspirations?

A: chrono-cross, koji kondo, flowx
   picked up different influences along the way
   interested in many different genres throughout his career
   bernard herman for orchestral music

Q: circle back to berklee --> advice for what people should focus on?

A: had a busy musical life outside of school
   didnt integrate well with school life
   focused more on message boards and solo artist life
   connecting with like-minded people
   boston 8-bit, other outside school things
   used classes to experiment
   berklee is notorious for having a "berklee sound"

Q: worked with csound?

A: no, messed with max a bit
   they live outside the middleware
   dependency issues

Q: make a living just composing?

A: possible, its a creative field, so play to your strengths
   dabbled in a lot of stuff, music is what hes known for

Q: website tags?

A: tag cloud; tag posts with different tags and arrange them by size

Q: how did you break in?

A: played shows with boston 8-bit, one in montreal
   devs for fez were there
   compilation originally, wheedled down to just him

   hyper light drifter -- did shows with a drummer/game dev
   drummer was friends with alex hirsch/saw hld kickstarter
   connected!

Q: implementation: fmod or wwise?

A: fmod, wwise is too brutalist
   HATE middleware
   solar ash -- only used unreal, lots of downsides but very fun!

Q: creative blocks?

A: heart machine; block had to do with interpersonal issues rather than work
   accept that work might be shitty
   breaking creative blocks: copely strategies from brian eno

Q: it follows tech stack?

A: mostly massive, from berklee bundle
   massive x SUCKS

Q: how did you get into live shows?

A: met berklee people through synth lab at EPD
   those people helped with boston 8-bit

Q: favorite game?

A: too hard. top 3: morrowwind if it wasnt janky, old sports games

Q: favorite game soundtrack?

A: chrono-cross, mashinarium, yoshi's island
